Hey everyone, welcome back to the
channel. Uh, today we're going to break
down one of the most common low-level
design interview questions together. For
anyone who might not be familiar,
low-level design is an interview type
that focuses on object-oriented design.
So, this is things like figuring out
what classes you need, how they
interact, the actual implementation of
the methods that make things work. And
so, as far as fang goes, at least
low-level design is really common at
Amazon. It's common at Microsoft. It's
common at Netflix. Usually for more
junior roles, but it does sometimes show
up for senior level roles as well and
up. Um, it's also really common in
different parts of the world. So much of
India and Asia in particular, companies
based there or even the offices of fang
companies based out of India or Asia
love to ask low-level design questions
oftentimes even regardless of the
candidates's level. Um, so what we're
going to do in this video is that we're
going to walk through one of the most
common beginner low-level design
questions out there, which is design a
connect for game, right? And my hope is
that this is going to serve as an
introduction to this type of interview
for those of you who may be new to it.
I'm going to show you both how I would
answer the question in an interview as
well as walk you through what I, as an
interviewer, would be looking for at
each step along the way. Uh, I guess
really briefly for those of you who may
be new to the channel, I'm Evan. I'm a
former staff engineer at Meta and the
current co-founder of Hello Interview,
where Hello Interview is a platform that
helps software engineers just like you
prepare for your upcoming interviews. We
got tons of content here on system
design, ML system design, low-level
design, what we're talking about today,
code behavioral, you name it, as well as
the ability to practice or do mock
interviews or have one-on-one
mentorship, salary negotiation.
Basically, a one-stop shop for
everything you need to prepare for your
upcoming software engineering
interviews. And the overwhelming
majority of all of this content here is
free. So head over to the site, check it
out. Uh if videos aren't your thing,
then don't worry. We have a full written
breakdown of the problem that we're
going through today, which is going to
show you all of the trade-offs, all of
the code, all of the decisions, as well
as each of the implementations in their
respective languages. Whereas we're
going to stick to pseudo code in the
video here today. So that'll be linked
in the description. Uh let's get after
it.
All right, enough messing around. Let's
jump right into it now and actually
start designing the system. So, that
first step was the requirements. And so,
you can imagine it's early in the
morning. You got your first low-level
design interview. You're super nervous.
You sit down. You enter the Zoom call
and you find your interviewer waiting
for you with the following prompt. On
the screen, it says, "Build a two-player
Connect 4 game where players take turn
dropping discs into a seven column six
row board. And the first to assign four
of their own discs vertically,
horizontally, or diagonally wins. Right?
This is the prompt that you're greeted
with. Now, for anyone who maybe hasn't
played Connect 4, just really quickly,
this is what a Connect 4 grid looks
like. Users take turn dropping the
discs. You want to arrange all of yours
in four, either vertically,
horizontally, or vertically,
horizontally, or diagonally, right? Um,
now one of the most important mistakes,
most common mistakes that I see
particularly for junior candidates when
they start the interview is they get
this prompt and they immediately start
thinking about implementation or jumping
into implementation. And this is a
problem for two reasons. First, you
haven't spent any time scoping out
exactly what it is that you're going to
build. So, you're not on the same page
with the interviewer yet. But second,
and maybe equally as important, is that
interviewers are actually explicitly
evaluating you on what's called your
problem analysis. And so they want to
see that you can take this vague prompt
and you can turn it into something
concrete, a concrete set of requirements
uh that that you that you can build
against. And so spend a few minutes up
front doing exactly that. And you're
going to want to ask some questions to
to clarify this with your interviewer.
And what candidates often ask me is
like, well, what questions should I ask?
And I think the way to do this is to
think about three primary categories.
The first is primary capabilities.
So lock gosh lock lock down the
capabilities of the system. The second
is error handling. Determine how you're
supposed to handle errors, where errors
appear. And then the third is define
some scope boundaries, what's in scope
and what's out of scope? And so we'll
run through this quickly. I don't need
to kind of roleplay this too hard, but
for primary capabilities, you might ask
the interviewer some questions like, how
do players interact with the game? Do
they just specify a column number and
the disc drops? And your interviewer
might say, yeah, that's exactly right.
Right? They drop it, it goes to the
lowest available spot. Okay, cool. You
confirm the main action, right? Then you
might say, "What are all the ways that a
game can end? Is it just the four in a
row, vertical, horizontal, or diagonal,
or are there draws?" And this is a
pretty good question. The interviewer
might say, "Yeah, that's correct. If the
if the board fills up and nobody gets
four in a row, then it's a draw." Okay,
great. Now, we know draw conditions are
in play, right? And so, we might move on
to ask about air handling. This could be
things like, "When someone tries to drop
a disc in a column that's already full,
what should we do? Should we return an
error, an exception, just ignore it?"
And they might say something vague like,
"Return false or raise an error, but
don't let invalid moves break the game
state." And then you might say something
like, "What should happen if a player
tries to move out of turn?" And they
would say, "Same thing. Just reject it
cleanly." So now we understand where the
error states are, right? You can't drop
it into a column that's full. You can't
move out of turn. Pretty clear. And so
then you'd want to understand sort of
where are the scope boundaries of the
system? What's in scope? What's out of
scope? And so you could ask a question
like, are we designing this to support a
single game at a time or do we have
multiple concurrent games going on at
once? Maybe if I'm an interviewer,
especially for an earlier stage
candidate, junior or mid-level, I might
say, keep it simple. Let's stay at just
one game at a time. And then you could
say, what about, you know, what about
the UI? Is the UI in scope, for example?
Uh, and they might say, no, that'll be
handled by somebody else. You're
focusing on just the backend class
design here. So, excuse me.
[clears throat] After this back and
forth with your interviewer, you're
going to end up with a pretty clear set
of final requirements. And you're
probably taking notes as you go. And so,
this is what you'll want to end up
writing on your whiteboard. Forgive me.
I'm going to copy and paste because you
guys saw how awful my typing while you
guys are watching is, but you might end
up with a final set of requirements that
looks like this. I mean, you should
write this on your shared screen with
your interviewer. And that's that you
have two players who take turns dropping
discs in a seven column, six row board.
that this falls to the lowest available
row in that chosen column. The game ends
either by having four in a row in either
of the three directions or it's a draw
when the board is full. We know that
invalid moves based on our questions are
dropping in a full column, moving out of
turn or moving after the game is over,
of course. And then we can even outline
here the things that are out of scope to
keep ourselves honest. If throughout the
design we ever try to touch about talk
about UI supported concurrent games,
well, we know we agreed with the
interviewer that's out of scope. So, we
should try to avoid that. But now we
have a concrete set of requirements and
we can start to move on to the next
steps in our design.
All right, so we got our clear set of
requirements in hand and the next step
in our delivery framework is to move on
to the entities. This is where we're
just figuring out what objects we
actually need and how they're going to
interact with each other. These becomes
the classes in our class design. And so
the way that I like to approach this,
and I think this is really formulaic and
and and a good suggestion, uh, is to
just go through your requirements
looking for the nouns, looking for the
things that stand out. And so in our
case, we have two players, okay? We'll
probably need to model players, right?
That drop onto a board. Okay, we
probably need a board, right? And then
the game ends. Well, clearly there's a a
game here. There's a game orchestrator,
right? So you're pulling out these
nouns. Maybe you're listing them as you
go. And in our case, what we'd end up
with is we obviously have that game
which is responsible for game state and
game logic. It's going to hold the board
and hold the players. And then we have
the board. It's going to manage the grid
state, the disc placement. It's going to
know how to check if columns are full,
whether discs should fall, uh whether
four discs are connected. It doesn't
care about whose turn it is or who's
winning. That's the job of game, right?
It's just it's just the board. And then
there's the player. And this is going to
represent just a single person in the
game. It's probably going to be a simple
data holder with just a name and a disc
color. And then maybe there's a disc.
Like you could write this, you could
not. I think with foresight we realize
this is probably just going to be a
simple enum or something. Um, but it is
a noun. It is a thing in the game and
it's going to be important. So maybe you
want to write it down there. Now, uh,
this was pretty simple for this design,
but in other low-level design
interviews, this can be pretty complex.
And so it's worth taking this time up
front in order to think thoroughly
through this so that you don't end up
going too far down the wrong path when
you get to your class design. But in any
case, you can always come back and you
can update this section as you go. Like
nothing that you write here in the
interview is concrete. It's really just
allowing your mind to step into the
process uh linearly so that it's able to
build this design up from its foundation
as opposed to having to jump right in
cold, which ends up usually being a
failure state for candidates.
So with our entities in place, we got
our requirements and our entities and we
can now use those entities in order to
move on to our class design. And this is
where things start to get more fun in an
actual interview. Um this is where we
actually get to decide what data each
class holds and what methods it exposes
to the outside world. And we're defining
its interface basically. And so
something candidates often uh struggle
with is deciding which class is
responsible for what. What's the
responsibility of the game? What's the
responsibility of board for example? And
the most important thing to remember is
that each job each class should have a
clear job. And so when requirements
change, you should be able to point to
exactly which class needs updating
without touching the others. That's
really the key here. And so for us, when
we look at game and board, you can think
of the board as just the dumb physical
object like the actual board in the
connect four game, right? It sits on a
table. It doesn't know about players or
whose turn it is. It just knows that a
disc can go here. It knows whether
there's four in a row. its only job is
grid physics and placement rules. And so
if the grid size were to change from 6x7
to 8 by 8, for example, or the win
condition changed from four in a row to
five in a row, only the board class
would need to update. And then game on
the other hand, it's just like the
referee. It's one job is game flow and
orchestration. It knows whose turn it
is. Is the game over? Who won? It uses
board just as a tool. And if we added an
undo feature or a switch to three
players or any of that, then only game
changes, right? See how clean that
separation is? And so the board handles
one thing, the game handles another.
Neither bleeds into the other's
responsibilities. And this principle is
important. It actually has a name. And
it's called SRP, the single
responsibility principle. And it's one
of the most important design principles
that you'll use. Uh, and it applies to
almost every low-level design problem
that you're going to see. So you don't
necessarily need to remember that name.
You don't necessarily need to say it in
an interview, but it's a principle that
you should keep in mind when you get
into class design. Um, and it, as I
said, shows up in just about every
single low-level design interview.
Um, okay. But with that in mind, let's
get back to our exact problem here and
design these classes. And the way I
recommend that you approach this class
design is that you start uh from the top
down. So, we'll begin with our game
class because it's our orchestrator.
It's our primary entry point. it's what
other users, classes, whatever will will
interact with. And once we define the
games interface, then we can work our
way down to the board and down to the
player. This will keep us focused on the
public API instead of getting lost in
the implementation details early. And so
for each class, what we can do is we can
simply go through the requirements and
derive both the state and the behavior
starting with game. So in designing the
class design for our game class, we can
start by looking up at our requirements
and going line by line and pulling out
the state. So we're going to focus just
on state right now and then we'll work
on methods in a second. So what does the
game class need to track or need to
know? We have two players take turns
dropping discs into a seven column six
row board. Okay, so the game needs to
track two players. A player one, which
is a player, and a player two, which is
going to be a player class.
Um, it also needs to track whose turn it
is as well as the board itself. So,
current player, that's going to be whose
turn it is. And then the board itself,
which is going to be a board class,
which we'll define in a second. And then
we have the game ends when either we get
the four diagonals or the board is full.
And so, the game needs to track some
sort of game state like is it in
progress? Did somebody already win? Is
it a draw? And so when it comes to
tracking state, we actually have an
interesting decision to make. I see some
candidates who use multiple boolean
flags. This is often like their reflex
is to do something like is over bool has
winner has winner.
Gosh, I'm such a bad typist while you
guys are all watching. I'm so sorry. Um
or is draw bool, right? And now if you
do something like this, the problem is
that you end up with three booleans
which give you eight possible
combinations, but only three of those
possible combinations are valid. Whether
it's in progress, one or draw. So you
can imagine something where it's like is
over is true, but has winner is false
and is draw is true. Like this isn't a
valid combination. And so you're relying
on yourself or any future programmers or
devs that come in here to never
accidentally set these conflicting
values. And that's bad. And so a better
approach and how you would usually model
state in these multi-state games or
multi-state designs is to use an enum
with three values. And so you could have
game state as an enum which has just
something like in progress maybe one and
draw.
And now you can only ever be one of
those three valid combinations.
Now, importantly, and you guys might be
thinking this, if you want to be able to
know who won at any point, well, you
could go look back at the board to
figure it out. That's one possibility.
But oftentimes, you also want to put
that on the player here or on the game
here. And if you do that, well, now you
have a nullable player and you still
have two things that in theory could get
out of sync because you could have in
progress equals or or you could have
game state as in progress, but the
winner as a player. That's obviously not
valid. You could have the game state as
one, but this be null. that's obviously
invalid. And so this is a bit more
advanced, but there are languages like
Rust, Swift, even TypeScript where you
can make the winner part of the one
state itself. So that this is actually
impossible. Um, but for the interview
context, especially when you're writing
in pseudo code, this simple enum plus
the winner state is more than enough.
You'll just have to trust yourself to
keep just these two things um consistent
or in sync. And as I said, this is
really even just a cache of what the
board can tell us about who ended up
winning by us just reading the discs on
the board. So it might be that you don't
even need this altogether. So if you're
looking at me and thinking, "Okay, Evan,
that was a a lot of talking, like what's
right? What should I do in an
interview?" Um, I hate to break this to
you, but there's no right answer. What I
want to see from a candidate in an
interview is that you can weigh these
trade-offs. you can make a reasonable
decision and a reasonable justification
and move forward. So, any of the things
that we just described with the
exception of the three boolean states
would be sufficient for me in an
interview and I'd feel pretty good about
it. All right, let's let's come back to
make sure that we have our full state.
Um,
what else do we have? Moving after the
game is over, moving after the turn. We
don't need anything there. The player
gets four discs. So looking back at it,
I feel pretty good that this is the the
complete state that we need to model um
for our game. So once we have our state,
we want to then move into the behavior
in order to figure out the methods or
the actual functions that we're going to
need to define. And so we can now look
at the actions the outside world needs
to perform. And every single one of
those methods should correspond to again
what are the concrete needs within our
requirements or our problem statement.
And so if we come back here, we have
players take turns dropping discs. Okay,
so we're going to need some sort of a
I'm going to actually denote these like
this just for private. Doesn't matter.
This is a semantics thing, but something
I like to do. You can do it either way.
Um, and so we're going to end up first,
let me put a constructor. You're going
to construct the game with player one,
player two. That's how a game is going
to start. Then based on what we just
said from the requirements, you're going
to have a make move. This is going to
have the player making the move and the
column that they're dropping it in. And
then maybe we either return a boolean or
we could throw here based on our
question that we asked our interviewer
earlier in case we try to make an
invalid move. We could either return
false or have the boolean. Uh the next
thing is that we reject moves that are
out of turn. Right? So moves should be
rejected cleanly if they're out of turn.
And so we need to have some way to know
whose turn it is. Maybe that's internal,
but we have a Why are you trying to give
me suggestions? Right? We got the get
current player. This is just our getters
here. No big deal. And then we're also
going to have the get game state. More
getters. Easy. Uh get winner in case we
want to return this. Again, this could
be by just reading our winner state
here, which would be the easiest, or it
could be by iterating over the board
again and finding which disk won. And
then we need to be able to potentially
get the board. This would be uh if
somebody wants to be able to render the
full view of the board like whatever
person is responsible for rendering the
UI. But given that it's out of scope
again that one is optional. So the most
important thing is the constructor and
making moves and then we have a bunch of
private methods that will help us do
that. Right? This is the overall class
design for game.
Now, before I go any further, I want to
clear up one common misconception. And I
can already hear you guys in the
comments screaming and saying, "What
about UML?" And I have a little bit of a
hot take here, but I feel passionately
that this is an accurate take. And
that's that look, UML is incredibly
outdated and it isn't actually used at
any major tech companies. Microsoft
themselves actually even removed UML
tooling from Visual Studio back in 2006
because usage had basically dropped to
zero. You know, an indication that
nobody's using it. And so UML was
designed for a totally different era of
software engineering where you were
inspecting uh where you weren't
inspecting and running code as regularly
or it was more expensive to do so. And
as a result, the trade-offs of modeling
these in some sort of a diagram in order
to help people review whatever was valid
back then. It's not now. And so what
that means in your interview is that if
your interviewer is asking you for UML,
then it's either out of habit or some
academic training rather than an actual
real requirement. And so if it comes up,
here's my concrete suggestion to you.
Ask them whether a simplified class
notation like we've done here um is
sufficient. And in almost every single
case, they will say yes, that's totally
fine. Right? In most cases, they are
totally fine with it. They also know
that memorizing UML symbols is a total
waste of time and energy. And so feel
confident here. Feel free to tell them
that. If they say for some reason, no, I
need UML. I personally would probably
say, "Hey, I didn't I didn't memorize
UML semantics. It's not something I've
ever used in my work." And I know that
it's actually a pretty outdated form of
of modeling classes. Um, and if they
continue to push, I don't know, it's
probably not a company that you want to
work at to be honest, but it's unlikely
that they do. So whether or not you need
to learn a UML, my thoughts are no and
that what you have here should be more
than sufficient. Now, let's move on to
defining the class design for our board
class. We're going to take the exact
same approach where we look at the
requirements in order to define first
the state and then the methods. And as
we know our board class is part of the
game state. And so game is going to be
who's interacting with this. So we want
to think about the things that game is
going to need to know about our board.
Okay. And so we can start looking at our
requirements and we see that we have a
seven column six row board. And so the
board needs to know how many rows and
columns it has. And so it's going to
have rows as an int. It's going to have
columns as an int. And in our case, this
is 6 by seven. But maybe it changes in
the future, right? So we're just making
this extensible here. And then what else
do we need to know? We need to know that
a disc falls right to its lowest
available place. That was one of the
questions that we asked them. Also, if
the board is full that it's a draw. Um
also that if a player gets four in a
row, then they end up winning. All of
this is telling us that we need to kind
of track each column in a row. We need
to know about the grid state itself. We
need to know where the uh the current
disks are on the grid. And so this
screams to us that we need to actually
track a grid. And the question then is
what is the grid made up of? Well, it's
a it's a two dimensional array of
course, but what is in that
two-dimensional array? And so what I see
a lot of candidates do is they do this.
They create a two-dimensional array of
players so that you can know which
players are in each spot. And I put a
question mark here to show that it's
nullable. Right? For some slots in the
grid, there is no player. And this is
reasonable. And if a candidate does
this, to be honest, I'm okay with it.
And it's not the end of the world. It's
totally fine. But what you'll notice is
that this is in part sort of violating
that single responsibility uh principle
that we were talking about earlier. And
that you don't actually need to know all
about the players here. the grid only
needs to know about what disk is there
really like what disc color. And so what
I like better and this makes it more
testable as well is that we end up
creating a disk color enum which just
has two colors maybe red or blue and all
that the board needs to know is what
disc colors are in each spot and then
game can figure out which player that
corresponds to and thus which player won
and all of these sorts of things. Right?
So this makes it more testable. It's a
little bit more true to SRP but like I
said you can go either way. Okay, I
don't really have too strong of a
preference here, but that's what I'm
going to end up doing. And so now we can
look at trying to define our methods.
And if we do this, these are the methods
that the board is going or the game
again is going to need to call. And so
the first thing that g the game might
need to figure out based on us knowing
that dropping into a full column is
invalid, right? Or moving out of turn is
invalid, moving after the game over is
invalid. It's going to need to know,
well, can I place this? And so given a
column, can I place it? And what should
it return here? Well, given a column,
can I place it? We'll say that it
returns the boolean. Then game can
decide what to do. Return an error to
the user, throw, render something in the
UI for whoever is handling that, right?
The next thing that we know is that a
disc falls to its lowest available row
and you end up dropping them, right? And
so we need to have that place disk
function. This is when a user calls make
move. What do they do? Well, they check,
can they place it? And then they
actually try to place the disc. And so
this will take the column that they're
placing it on as well as the color. And
I'm going to intentionally leave the
return value here unknown. And we'll
come back to it in just a moment as we
learn more.
Just continuing to go through here. We
know that if the board is full, then
it's a draw. And so the game is going to
need to be able to make that decision.
And so we should expose to the game then
is full. It should be able to check
this. And that's going to be a boolean.
And then maybe the last one here is that
a player gets four discs in a row. Well,
then they win, right? And so the board,
the game needs to be able to call the
board and say, did somebody win? We can
call that check win. And so what should
check win have? This is where I'll come
back to these question marks. Option one
is that it just has a color. Basically,
you say check, did this player win? The
player with the color red. And if we did
this, then we would look at the entire
board in order to try to figure out if
they had four in a row. This is totally
doable. It's fairly reasonable and
there's nothing wrong with this
approach. But what would be smarter is
that we know that the only way that they
can win is immediately after they place
a disc. That's what changed the grid
state. So after they place a disc, then
whether or not they win would mean that
that newly placed disc has to be a part
of that for a row. And so rather than
checking the entire grid, what we can do
is we can tell uh the game class right
which row this place disc fell into. It
already knows the column. We can tell it
how far it fell in terms of rows. So
return the row the disc lands in
or negative one maybe if we we couldn't
place it for some reason, right? Just to
handle the error conditions. And then
for check win, what we can do is that we
can pass in the row and the column of
the newly placed disc so that it knows
exactly where to sort of fan out from in
this grid checking the diagonals, the
horizontals and the verticals. Okay? And
so there's a very strong chance that you
did not realize this in class design.
And that is so fine. Like in class
design, you could have done place this
and you could have had this as a
boolean. And then you could have had
this as just a color and a boolean. And
that's great. And as you got into the
implementation, you might figure this
out that it would be more efficient and
then you can come back here and make the
change. Just given that this is a
YouTube video and people might be
stopping the video at this point, I want
to be careful to just kind of be correct
as I go. Um, but know in the actual
game, you can be pretty fluid. And then
after here, you have some private
methods. Sure, the get row, the getters,
all of these, get column. I'm not even
going to write all of these or put them
all um perfect, but you know, get cell,
whatever. Maybe you want to have these
um just as internal to the board class,
but they'll all be there. What really
matters when you're doing the the class
design is that you expose the public
ones, right? The private ones are are
far less important, and I more or less
just put them here for completeness. So
anyway, we got our board that
encapsulates all the grid math and the
wind detection. The game uh doesn't know
how to scan for four in a row. It just
asks the board and updates its own state
accordingly. Now we've done disk, we've
done game, we've done board, we sort of
did disk uh as a result of board because
we needed to create that enum. Now we
just need to do player. And so what is a
player? Uh we're not going to spend any
time here. Player is super
straightforward. A player just needs to
know what color they are. And that's
going to be a disc color. And then maybe
there's some other things that the UI is
going to care about. Obviously, that's
out of scope for us, so who really
cares? But like maybe it's got a string.
And then it's just going to expose some
public getters here like get name,
right? or get color
discolor string. Nothing to it, right?
No time to spend no reason to spend time
there. So at this point, we have the
class design and then we can move on to
our implementation.
Our class design is in place and now
it's time for implementation. So like I
said in the beginning, uh this can be
different depending on the company that
you're interviewing for. Some the
majority want pseudo code, what we're
going to do. Some want real code. So, I
want you to just talk through it even uh
so after you present your class design,
just ask them, ask your interviewer what
kind of detail they're looking for.
Hopefully, your recruiter even told you
up front, but as you get into your
implementation, here's the approach that
that I want you to take. I want you to
first start by defining maybe I'll put
this as a comment as well. I want you to
start start by defining the core logic.
Right? So, this is just listing off in
numbers. You'll see me do this in a
second, the core logic of the actual
function. And then the second is to
consider the edge cases. And
interviewers love when you consider edge
cases. So you want to make sure that
this is something that you always do.
This is going to be a pretty natural
progression. You'll understand what the
method should do and then all the ways
in which it could break. And when you
get into implementation, typically the
interviewer tells you a couple functions
that they want you to implement. You
don't have time in a short interview to
implement everything. And so in this
interview, the ones that they usually
care about are make move. That's
obviously the most important one from
game. So game.makemove.
Uh they also usually want to see the
board.place disk. It's an interesting
one. And then check when because it
checks all of those conditions, right?
These are usually in most interviews
about this problem, the ones that they
want to see you implement. And it's the
ones that that we're going to implement
here together as well. And so as you're
implementing, just remember you're
thinking about writing clean code. Avoid
all the cleverness. Avoid premature
optimizations. That's a trap that I see
candidates fall into so often. But let's
go ahead and let's start with our games.
make move. And so we have game
uh and then we have our make move where
make move if we come back here took in a
player and a column and returned a
boolean. So it's going to have a player
and it's going to have a column and I'm
going to come in here and I'm first
going to do what we said we should do
starting with defining the core logic.
So I'll say what is the core logic? The
core logic here is that we are going to
place the disc. We're going to try to
place the disc. We're going to check if
placing that disc means that somebody's
won. If so, or maybe if not, excuse me,
then we'll check for a draw.
And then we will switch turns,
right? And then we'll
return. So, that's the happy pace. When
somebody wants to make a move, we just
place the disc. We check if they won. If
they didn't, we check if overall there's
a draw. We switch turns. And then we
return. I don't even need to add that.
And then what are the edge cases? Where
can things go wrong here? Well, the edge
cases would be what? That the game is
already over. You can't place a misk
then or you can't place a disc then,
right? It could be that it's the wrong
player's turn. That won't work. If the
person trying to place it, it's the
wrong turn. It could be that the column
index is out of bounds. They're trying
to place it somewhere where it can't be
placed. It could be that the column is
full.
And so if you're watching this and
you're astute, you might be thinking to
yourself, "Wait a minute, Evan, those
based on what you said about single
responsibility and and proper
encapsulation, those should not even be
a part of game." And you're right. So
I'm kind of going to note that to
myself. This is actually board, right?
I'll make sure that board does these
checks. Um, but as it pertains to game,
game just needs to know whether its
state is already over or whether it's
the wrong player.
And so we can come in here then to to
try to actually implement this. And what
would it look like? Well, I'm going to
start with just the happy case. So, I'm
going to place a disc. So, I'm going to
say boardplace
disk and it has a column. And then we
know that we have the current player,
but it takes their color. So, I'm going
to do that. And then what did place disk
return? Place disc we said would return
the row. I'm going to say row equals
that. And then I'm going to say if
forward, and this is just pseudo code.
You can write pseudo code however you
want. You can see my pseudo code looks
Python E, but it really doesn't matter,
right? Do whatever works for you. You're
just trying to get the logic across to
your interviewer. No interviewer cares
about the type of pseudo code you write.
There is not even an agreed upon style
of pseudo code in the industry. Um, so
I'm going to do board check when on the
row and the column, right? I have the
column because it was passed in as a
parameter. I have the row because we
returned it. Remember that was a
decision that we made earlier. And if
that's true, then I'm going to change
the state to one. And I'm going to
change the winner to the current player.
Cool. What's next, though? If it's not
true, we said that we need to check if
this was a draw. So, I'm going to say
else if the board is full, well, in this
case, my state equals
my state equals draw. Um, and then
otherwise,
right?
So, if we won, game over. If it's a
draw, game over. If it's not game over,
then I need to switch my my current
player. And so my current player would
be that if the player equals player one,
then now it's player two. Otherwise,
it's player one. Just a simple turnary
there, right? I'm just saying if it's
player one, now it's player two.
Otherwise, it's player one. No big deal.
And then maybe at the end here, I return
true because we said that make move
returns a boolean to whether or not we
were successfully able to return or
we're successfully able to make the
move. Okay, so that's my happy path.
easy. Uh, relatively easy. Nothing to
it. Let's not think about those edge
cases, though. And so, what are the
failure conditions? Well, if the game is
already over and so I need to say if the
state does not equal in progress, then
we should return false. And then if the
what did we say? If the player does not
equal the current player and we have
current player state, remember current
player is state. So, if the player does
not equal the current player, I'm also
going to return false. Um, but then I
said that I was going to offload these
to the board. And so, I'm assuming that
place disgrow
equals equals negative1. There was a
failure. We weren't able to place the
disc. Um, and I'm going to also return
false in that case. One important thing
to discuss here, and some of you might
be thinking about this, doesn't this
stink? Why are we returning booleans?
Shouldn't we be throwing errors? Um, and
like you're right to call that out.
You're totally right to call that out.
In this case, whoever's working with the
UX or the UI is going to just they're
not going to know what type of error
this was. They're going to just say to
the user like, there was an error, and
that's maybe not a great experience. And
so, because we defined that as sort of
out of scope and this is an interview
and I'm I'm kind of shortening things
here, maybe this is fine. But if you
want to be totally complete and I would
appreciate a candidate bringing this up,
then maybe you actually return some
appropriate error status here. Like
maybe this returns some object that has
like success and message. And in each of
these you can actually then return false
and you know game not in progress or
maybe it returns an enum so that the the
user knows what or the the caller knows
what to do with it. Um, the reality is
you don't know what the caller wants
here. And so I would just raise this if
I was an interview. I'd raise this to my
interviewer. I would say, I know this is
important. I know it could be something
else. I've sort of taken like a a cheat
code here by just returning false or
true because I don't know what my caller
wants, but it would probably be some
sort of an informative error message and
they would appreciate that. I think
that's more than enough for them. Um,
but ask them, see what they say. If they
want the full error states, you can
obviously put them. So just reviewing
this again, our core logic is in place.
We place a disc. We check a win. We see
if it's full and we switch players. Our
edge cases are handled. Game over
current player as well as any issues
with the the the columns being full or
the wrong index. This looks like a
pretty good implementation to make move.
We can move on then to the next key
function that we want to have a pseudo
code implementation for is going to be
from our board class and it's going to
be uh place disk. So we can scroll down
here. class
board and then we have place disk. And
if we look up at our class design, we
can remind ourselves it takes a column
and it takes a color and it returns the
int of the row that it landed in or
negative one. So we have the column,
the column and the color. Okay. And so
we'll take the exact same approach.
We'll just define what the core logic
should be and then we'll define what our
error conditions should be. And so the
core logic here is that we want to find
the lowest
empty row so that it can uh you know for
that column so that it can fall to the
lowest empty row and then we want to
place the disk basically update the grid
state and we want to return
return the row it landed in so we know
where to span our check out from as we
talked about earlier. As for edge cases,
these should be the same as what we have
here. We already determined that they
were edge cases apart of the board.
Right? So the edge cases are
the column index is out of bounds or the
column is full. Okay. So if we then come
in to try to implement this, we can
start with our core logic. And the first
thing when it comes to finding the
lowest empty row for that column, let me
paste this ASI in it so I can help you
guys visualize this. This is our grid,
right? So we just have a grid, a array
of rows, okay, where each one of these
is indexed at zero. So 0 0 is our top
top left hand corner. And so if somebody
told us they wanted to drop it into two,
what we'd want to do is we'd want to
check here, then here, then here, then
here, then here, then here all the way
up until or if we found um you know, an
empty one so that we could actually
place our disc. And so that means that
we start at the rows minus one because
remember rows was one of our state
variables that in this case is going to
our instance variables which is going to
be six. And so we start at rows number
one since it's zero indexed and we just
work our way up. And so in pseudo code
what that might look like is for row
where rows
[cough] row equals rows minus one down
to zero just have a for loop of that
nature.
uh then we can say if the grid and we do
rows first with that row and that given
column which was the input if it's null
then what we want to do is we want to
set the grill or the grid with that row
and that column to the disc color that
was input right and we want to return
that row if we don't then maybe we
return negative one so there's our happy
case pretty straight straightforward
core logic. Nothing really to it. Now,
if we look at those edge cases, then we
could either just kind of offload this
um and we probably will end up doing
that. Yeah, let me do that. So, I'm
going to say if the column is less than
zero or the column is greater than
greater than or equal to board.get
calls,
right? Then in this case, we can return
our negative one. And then what's the
other condition? Well, if the column is
already full. And so that's the logic
that we can just offload to the helper.
We already had a helper about cam place.
So if you remember, we can just have if
boardcam place
column. And this is really useful to do
this kind of offloading um in in a
little design interview. Not only is
this like correct, right? It's nice to
have uh you know designs that are
simplified in this way. Um, it's like
correct programming, but it also just
means that you don't have to now go
implement that class or implement that
method, excuse me, that function unless
your interviewer asks you to. It's
basically you saying like this one is
easy. I don't really need to do this
one. If you want me to, I will, but I
can kind of just place it that simply.
So, with that in place, we have our core
logic. Easy enough, right? We work from
the grid all the way up until something
is available and we place it. Uh, and we
return these negative ones or errors as
we discussed earlier based on our two
edge conditions. Last but not least, we
can implement what is really the most
interesting function maybe here.
Board.check win. So if we come back to
our board, we can do check win. And what
did check win take according to our
class design? Check win takes the row,
the column, and the color. And so the
row and the column, this is the disc
that was just placed because again, we
can just fan out from that disc that was
just placed rather than looking at the
entire board and the color. And so here,
[cough] excuse me again, we're going to
define our core logic and then we'll
define whatever edge cases we need to be
aware of. And so for our core logic, we
just need to check for four in a row.
Check for a row in all four directions.
You might think, four directions, don't
we just have horizontal, vertical, and
diagonal? Well, there's two diagonals,
right? because you can win horizontally,
you can win vertically, and you can win
diagonally to the right, and diagonally
to the left. And so there's actually
four there, and that's important. Um,
and then obviously we're going to return
true if found, false otherwise. So
that's the core logic. The edge cases
would be if either row or column becomes
out of bounds or the one given to us is
out of bounds, then clearly we'd return
false. And if you ended up giving us,
you know, seven, uh, column seven, row
six, it's out of bounds. Nothing we
should do with that. Um, what if they
gave us row and column? What if this was
blue and they gave us row and column 35
or 53 and it wasn't blue here. Well, we
should return in that false in that case
too, right? So if the cell at row column
doesn't match color of the disk then
also return false.
Those are our two uh edge cases error
cases that we want to handle.
So let's go ahead and now implement it.
This is the the more interesting
implementation of all of these. So the
first thing is we want to figure out how
we can check the winds in each of these
directions. And so what that means is
that we're going to start with a disc.
That disc could be placed here. And what
we want to do is basically count how
many of that same color are to its
right, how many are to its left. For
vertical, how many are above it and
below it? For diagonal, how many are up
and to the right and down and to the
left. And for the other way, up and to
the left and down and to the right. And
then we get to sum those up and see if
it if it's four. And so what we can do
is we can define first the directions
that we move. And so the first thing
that we would have is that we could move
zero in rows but one in columns. And
that would mean that we are going over
horizontally. We're staying on the same
row, but we're moving one over on the
column, right? So this would be that
we've gone over one. Maybe let me do
this to be clear. So this would be a
horizontal check.
And then we can also have one zero. And
this would of course be the vertical
check, right? Because this would mean
that if we're right here and we went
over one row, we went up one row and we
didn't change columns, well, we're
checking vertically then in that case.
And then we also have one one. This
would mean that we go up into the right
or I guess in our case because we're
increasing, excuse me, this would really
be down and to the right. Uh so this
would be the
uh what did we call this? Diagonal. Is
that how you spell it? Okay. And then
you need to have the other diagonal one
which is basically you're going in the
other direction which would be that. So
other diagonal. So those are our
directions. Those are the ways that we
need to move. But we also need to move
like the opposite of those. So again if
the disc is here then that horizontal
one is going to take us in this
direction. We also need to look over in
that direction there. Okay. So let me
show you how we can do that. So we can
say that for all of the directions to
the right or the directions of the row
that we should move and the directions
of the columns that we should move
indirection. So we're going to iterator
over this. The first time that we
iterate over it, we need to move our row
by zero. We need to move our column by
one. Okay, you can see how that's
happening there. Let me remove that for
better pseudo code. And then our count
is starting at one.
And then our count is going to increase
based on our count in that direction
starting at the row and the column that
we're currently at. Moving up by the
amount that we need to for the row and
the amount that we need to for the
column checking for that color. And so
this is move in one direction. In the
case of our first horizontal one, this
is like moving to the right. Okay. And
we're going to implement this function
in a moment. We're going to offload it
for a second. And then we need to look
in the other direction. And so we can do
this same thing.
We can do this same thing, right? Count
in direction. But in this case, we want
to go in the opposite direction. And so
in the case of our horizontal check,
this would mean that our column is
actually negative one. And so we're
moving looking this way. So our first
check is going to move to the right.
Count how many are to the right. Our
second check is going to count how many
are to the left. We're adding those to
our total count starting with the disk
which we already know is the right
color. And then if the count is greater
than or equal to four, then we can
return true. If we got out of this whole
thing and we didn't find it, then
obviously we're returning false. So
that's the high level. But in order to
make this make more sense, let me go
ahead and also implement what would be a
private method here of that get
direction. And so that's get row get
column the direction that we need to
move in the rows the direction of
columns and then the color here. And so
you have your count starting at zero.
How many do you have? The row that you
need to check now is whatever the
current row was plus [cough] excuse me
how much we need to move either one step
in either direction or zero.
The column same thing column plus our
DC.
And then what do we check? We just check
if the row is greater than or equal to
zero. This is just our simple bounds
here that we always need to check that
we don't go outside of the grid. And our
row is less than the board.get rows.
Okay, easy enough. Just did we get
outside of our bounds and C is greater
than zero. C is greater C is greater
than or equal to zero because zero was
in play here. And the C is less than
board.getc columns. Right? just again
are we in the board and then most
importantly that the board.get cell that
we're at of this R and C the one that we
moved to right equals the color. So if
all of that is true then we are still in
the board we haven't exceeded the board
and as we moved over one we are still
that same color and as a result we
should increment the count and we should
also then move over once more. Right? So
we can move our column or our row and
our column by one more each. And at the
end of that we can return our count. And
so what is this doing? It's starting
where we need to be and it's just
walking its way over in just one
direction because we defined that
direction that it needs to go. And so
the overall one does this twice. It
first walks over in one direction and
then it walks over in the other. So in
the case of the diagonal, it walks that
way and then this way. Sums up those
counts if they're greater than four.
Hurrah. Okay. So that covers the the
core logic. And then the edge cases, of
course, our rower columns are out of
bounds. Well, we should probably just
check that right up front. I'm going to
copy this because it's the same code.
And that's just if it's this, then I'm
going to return false. And also, if
board.getell
of that row or column does not equal the
current color, as we said in the second
check, then I'm also going to return
false. Now, the thing that I want you
guys to see here is not watch me write
code. I actually hate that you guys are
sitting here watching me trying to just
type this. The interesting thing is I
want you guys to see how uh systematic
you can make this in an interview,
right? How easy this can be by just
going step by step. If you've built your
class design, you understand the
functions, you understand the core logic
and the edge cases for each, then you
can come in here, implement that core
logic, you can implement the edge cases,
and everything becomes pretty
straightforward.
Um, one other thing that I want to call
out here is that some of you are
probably thinking to yourself, why
didn't he use the strategy pattern? And
I break this down in more detail in the
article, which is going to be linked in
the description. But let me let me paste
actually what the strategy pattern could
look like in here for you guys. Uh,
unfortunately, this is this is in Java,
but I think you guys can still get the
picture. What I see a lot of candidates
do is that they implement some interface
of a wind checker. And that interface
has one function to check. And then they
implement a horizontal wind checker, a
vertical wind checker, a diagonal down,
a diagonal upright. And in their check
win, what they do is that they have all
of those checkers and they iterate each
of over each of them checking them. And
if any of them return true, then of
course uh the check win should resolve
to true. And so I didn't even implement
these. I stubbed them out. But you can
see how many lines of code this is. And
I think this is a classic example of
something I see in so many low-level
design interviews. And if you take
anything away from this video, maybe
it's that I want you to take this away.
That the most common mistake candidates
make is that they just shove patterns
unnecessarily into problems because they
want to show off to their interviewer,
look at all these patterns I learned.
And what it leads to is just ridiculous
overengineering. Like why do I need to
define an interface and a strategy
pattern for each of these four
strategies when a there's no conceivable
additional strategy that you could have?
There's no other direction that you
could even move on a grid, first of all.
And B, in order to check this, it's just
10 lines of code. Why blow everything up
like this? And so, maybe this is kind of
my own itch that I'm passionate about,
but I I think that this is strictly
speaking correct within software
engineering. And it's a symptom of these
low-level design interviews where we've
taught these patterns in object-oriented
design um so excessively that candidates
actually lose sight of what they're
supposed to really be doing. And so
don't be that guy or girl. Don't shove
patterns in just to show the interviewer
that you're right. If you want to show
them that you understand patterns, do
this. This is a senior level thing to
do. You could say here, hey, I could
introduce a strategy pattern here. I
could have a pattern or I could have an
implementation for each of the different
check directions and then iterate over
those check directions um in order to
determine whether someone has won. But
the reason I'm not going to do that is
because there's no really conceivable
option for those wind checkers to change
and their logic is all so similar to
each other. And so there's no reason for
me to blow up the complexity of this
implementation just to fit in a pattern
unnecessarily. If you say something like
that, your interviewer will be
impressed. I promise you. And if for
some reason your interviewer is not and
they say, "No, I want to see you shove a
pattern in here." Then so be it. You can
go ahead and you can implement the
pattern. And again, I don't [snorts]
know, it's not the best interviewer.
Maybe not a company that you want to
work for. Um, but I also understand that
the market's tough and and you need to
adapt and and we all want to get those
jobs. Um, but nonetheless, there's the
implementation of the three core
functions. If you want to see these
implemented in your language of choice
or you want to see all of the smaller
helper functions implemented as well,
again, written breakdown, uh, you can
see all of that there
if time permits. And depending on your
level, your interviewer might might now
ask you a couple follow-up questions to
test the extensibility of your code.
Depending on the company, as I said,
level, how hard the question was, you
may not get here. And I know this video
is already pretty long. And so,
especially if you're junior mid-level,
feel pretty good, like you've gotten to
this point, you're all done. If you're
senior up and you want to stick around a
little bit, I'll be complete and just
walk through what the top three
extensibility questions for this
particular LOL design interview usually
are. And that's how you'd support
different board sizes, how you would add
an undo or a move history, as well as
how you would add a computer opponent.
So, if we start with just that first
one, this is really straightforward. How
would you support different board sizes?
If my interviewer asked that, I would
say, well, that's actually really
straightforward. Nowhere aside from in
the class definition would we have
hard-coded six and our seven? Yeah,
whatever. Um, so all that we would do is
add this guy. I actually just added it
and this wasn't here a moment ago, but a
constructor which takes in our row and
our columns and as a result now we have
a dynamic board size. It can be whatever
you want it to be because nowhere else
in the code did we hardcode that six or
that seven. Right? Everywhere we
dynamically checked based on the number
of rows and the number of columns when
we were checking boundaries. So our grid
would just naturally grow and everything
else would work. Perfect. Our code was
extensible. So my answer here would just
be update the board constructor to take
any and it'll work and it'll work easy.
For that next question, how would you
add undo or move history? Um then this
one's a little bit more involved. Undo
is pretty common. It's a pretty common
follow-up question for these sorts of
games. And this is testing how well you
had a clean separation between your
orchestrator or game class and your
state or your board class. And since all
moves are flowing through that game make
move function, you already have a single
choke point where you want all of the
moves to be recorded. And so you need to
introduce some history. I would
basically say something along the lines
of this. I can add it here. This is just
directly out of the uh uh out of the the
written breakdown which is linked in the
description. So I would say undoss
belong in the game because game controls
the lifestyle, the turn order and when
state changes and then I just keep a
move history stack such that each time a
move succeeds, we push a small move
record containing both the player, the
row and the column. And then when we
want to undo, we just pop that last move
off. We clear that cell on the board and
we revert the current player. This is
essentially what would need to happen.
So, let me show you just quickly what
that might end up actually looking like.
And so, we would have to add a new class
like a move which just tells us the
player, the row, uh, and the column that
actually took place. And then within our
game class, we would add something like
this. If we come back up to our game
class,
come back up to our game class, right?
We would add something like a move
history.
We would add something like a move. Oh,
I put that in the wrong place. We would
add something like a move history which
has a stack of those move objects. And
then within make move, we're going to
push to that stack. Okay, let me remove
it just because I'm going to link this
and I don't want you guys to see the
kind of incomplete state there. But what
that would end up looking like is that
in terms of changes, we'll have game
with that. And then when it came to that
make move function that we had earlier,
it's going to now look like this. all
the things we did before. Remember, we
place the disc and then we're going to
push that new move um onto the move
history. And so then what the actual
implementation of undo last undo last
move would look like would be as
straightforward as this. We would say if
the move history is empty, obviously
return false. That's our edge condition.
We'd pop off of our move history in
order to get the last move. And then we
could revert the board to clear its
state. So board would now need to expose
some clear cell which just takes the
last row in the column and obviously
removes that cell. It would probably
check like are there cells above me? Can
I even remove this? It probably has some
condition checks there. But we won't go
that deep. And then simply change the
current player. This could be that
turnary like we had earlier. Um or
actually no this is even better. Right?
We have the last from the move. So we
can put the player back. uh and then put
the state back to where it needs to be.
Uh something like this in case there was
a winner. This is a simplified version.
And to be honest, this is all you would
need in an interview. Usually when
they're asking about extensibility,
there's no time left. They're not
wanting full implementations. Again,
what I did here is probably even more
than you would want in an interview.
Like it would be sufficient to just say
this, right? Read this thing out. That's
kind of good enough. But I wanted to
just really show you guys a little bit
more about what I meant here so I was a
bit more complete. And then last but not
least, we have that how would you add a
computer opponent? And so this one's a
little bit interesting because it's
mostly outside of the state u or outside
of the scope of our current design. And
what this follow-up question is usually
testing is whether or not you can extend
this behavior and recognize that it's
outside of your current class design. So
without like ripping up your game and
your board implementation as it is. So
you might say something in effect like
this. Let me again paste this in.
You might say that you'd keep the game
rules exactly as they are. Game and
board. Nothing needs to change. You just
introduce some small bot component or
bot class that looks at the current
board and then returns whatever column
it wants to use. Now, we didn't kind of
do this game drive logic that was
outside of our scope. So, the the
current game drive logic would look
something like this.
uh
would look something like
sorry
you know would look something like this.
You would have while the game state is
in progress get the current player and
then their column equals you know wait
from the UI to get input. Basically this
is how the game would progress. You just
go back and forth between the current
players. you would get that input and
then you would do gameake
move current column. This is how our
game class would be used or called and
again something like this. This would be
sort of the drive engine. And so the
only thing that would change here is
that maybe you would create some class
bot engine which has a choose move and
how it chooses the move your interviewer
doesn't care. Nobody cares. Like
obviously you could have some
sophisticated ML thing here or you could
just randomly choose a column on the
board. It doesn't really matter. But
then the only way that that little thing
changes is it becomes now this. And so
now when you instantiate the game, you
also instantiate this bot. And you
simply say if the current is a human
player, then you know do it from the
column else choose the move from the bot
and you go from there. Your actual board
and game didn't need to change at all.
And that's sort of the key here. Um,
if I ask this follow-up question, one
thing I see candidates often do is that
they'll lean into like the
object-oriented heavy approach and
they'll create a player interface.
They'll create a player interface and
it'll have a human player and it'll have
a bot player, right? where the choose
move for the human player reads from the
UI and the choose move from the bot
player um chooses it, you know, however
we decide to choose it, randomly or
otherwise. Um, this is fine. I don't
mind this. I think that this is totally
okay. Um,
I don't know. I'd argue that maybe the
the the simple bot engine approach that
we have here is even a better design
just because a human player doesn't do
anything. It's just data. And so making
the player an interface adds this
abstraction without actually adding any
value. Whereas keeping player as just a
simple data and separating uh you know
its identity from making decisions makes
I think in my mind pretty clear. Um and
if you had reason to believe that there
would be other types of players a human
a bot and what else? I don't know. I
can't think of it off the top of my
head. But in any case I appreciate
either approach in an interview. As the
interviewer I don't mind one bit. So
feel free to do either one.
All right, there you have it folks.
We've walked through each of the steps
in the framework all the way through to
extensibility. Hopefully you feel like
you have a pretty good understanding of
how you would answer this question and
more importantly the framework that we
would use to walk through low-level
design interviews of any question or any
problem in the future. The main
takeaways I want you to have is that
these interview types don't have to be
so daunting. When you build up
sequentially and you follow the
framework, it really follows a natural
progression that's easy to build off of.
And so long as you remember to keep
things simple, to not uh over inject
patterns in order to show off in places
where they're unnecessary, I think
you're going to do a fantastic job in
your interviews. So, this was the first
low-level design interview that we've
put on this channel. Um, let me know
what you thought. Like, let me know if
there was anything that was confusing or
if you don't like the flow or the
progression. anything, any feedback, any
tips, we'll continue to evolve these to
make them as useful as possible for all
of you. And um most importantly, best of
luck with your upcoming interviews. You
guys are going to do great. Take care.